JUDY WOODRUFF: But first to the
analysis of Shields and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist
Mark Shields and New York
Times columnist David Brooks.
Welcome, gentlemen.
So, Mark, welcome back.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We
missed you last week.
The Donald Trump Jr. story.
We have now learned that he
had a meeting a year ago,
Trump Tower, with a lawyer who
had some connection to
the Russian government.
How does this change our
understanding of the Russia
collusion allegation?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think
it's fair to say, Judy, that
the White House lost any benefit
of the doubt that it
could claim on this story.
The shoes continue to drop,
like it's a Zappos warehouse
or Imelda Marcos' closet.
I mean, it just -- each time,
they're amending their story,
they're appending or extending
their story.
And so I just think the fact
that there were such denials
and accusations of a Democratic
plot, all of those are gone,
and they stand naked and
they stand exposed as shams.
I mean, they were actively
engaged, at least welcoming
Russian involvement in the 2016
election, in behalf of Donald
Trump against Hillary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David, does
this change your assessment of
what may have been going on?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
My colleague Ross Douthat wrote
that any time you give Donald
Trump the benefit of the doubt,
he always lets you down.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: And that's true.
That's true for his business
clients and it's true for those
of us who thought, they couldn't
have been some stupid, to
walk right into collusion
with the Russian meetings.
And yet they were not only that
stupid, but I think what is
striking to me is the complete
amorality of it, that Donald
Trump Jr. gets an e-mail saying
the Russian government is
offering you this, and
he says, "I love it."
And it reminded me so much
of some of the e-mails that
came out of the Jack Abramoff
scandal, that came out of the
financial crisis scandal, where
they're just -- they're like
frat boys who are gleefully
going against the law and are
going against all morality.
And they're not even overcoming
any scruples to do this.
They're just having fun with it.
And then, in the days since,
we have had on - - Donald Jr.
on Sean Hannity's show, again,
I did nothing wrong, just
incapable of seeing that there
might have been something wrong
about colluding with a foreign
power who is hostile with you.
And then Donald Trump himself
saying, he's a wonderful guy,
again, not seeing anything
wrong, and then even last day
lying about how many people were
in the meeting, a completely
inconsequential lie.
And so we're trapped in the
zone just beyond any ethical
scruple, where it's all about
winning.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Beyond any
ethical scruple, Mark,
is that where we are?
MARK SHIELDS: Yes, I think
it's fair to say that
Donald Trump was born
without the embarrassment
gene or the moral
reservation gene.
He just -- he doesn't --
when he says that most people
would take that meeting, Judy,
I mean, this is not -- I have
been around for a while, and
been to the Dallas Fair twice,
and all the rest of it.
People wouldn't do that.
In 2000, Al Gore's campaign
got ahold of, was delivered
George Bush's briefing book.
They turned it over to the FBI.
That's what you do when
you're honorable in politics.
This isn't a meeting
with a foreign power.
This isn't Canada or the
Swiss Family Robinson.
This is Russia.
This is a country that has
supported, propped up the worst
of anti-democratic regimes in
the Middle East, that has
practiced -- mistreated
its own press, mistreated
its own civil society,
and economic intimidation
of its neighbors, including
invasion of its neighbors.
I mean, this is the one country
on the face of the earth with
the capacity to obliterate
the United States.
This is serious stuff.
And to do it so casually and,
as David said, without moral
reservation, is -- I guess it
should be stunning,
but, sadly, it isn't.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But some of the
Trump team, David, in their
response to this are sounding
almost offended that people
would even think that they
were doing something wrong.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, well, they
just don't -- they don't get it.
My pal Mike Gerson had a good
line in his column today.
If you make losing a sin, you
make cheating a sacrament.
And that is true.
If it's all win-loss, then
you do whatever you can to win
and to make money and to beat
the deal.
And so I do think you have
entered the zone where they
don't quite see what they have
done wrong.
But cheating with a foreign
company -- country is -- as Mark
keeps saying, is a grave sin.
And then there's just the
scandal management of it, of
letting it drip out, letting it
drip out today and
today and today.
And then there is almost just
a cluelessness like a color
blindness about how the rest
of the world is going
to go react to this.
And this has been a leitmotif
for the Trump administration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is the case,
Mark, that there was one version
we heard over the weekend,
and then, on Monday, there was
a little bit more, and then
Tuesday, Wednesday, then today
still another.
MARK SHIELDS: Mm-hmm.
No, it is, Judy.
And I don't know what to think.
I mean, drip, drip, drip,
comes a downpour at some point.
How about the disparaging of
the United States intelligence
agencies and professionals by
President Trump, candidate Trump
and now President Trump, whether
Russia -- you know, I can't
be sure Russia was involved.
Yes, probably, but not for sure.
I mean, here they are, the Trump
Tower with the people, their
names approved on the visitors
list for the meeting in the
Trump Tower, and pretending
they didn't know it.
So, no, it's -- David is right.
In a management sense, it's
just been incredible, Judy.
Apparently, it's hit the
president or someone has
gotten to the president,
because his statement
about his son was so
sort of homogenized,
he's a quality person.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He
said he's a good boy.
MARK SHIELDS: Good boy,
and praised him for
his transparency, which
is a little bit like,
as I'm about to be indicted
for tax evasion, say, well, I
want to make something clear.
I failed to pay my taxes.
DAVID BROOKS: It does open
up a bunch of questions,
like what were the -- this
-- as the intelligence
experts keep saying, this looked
like a Russian feeler operation.
They just wanted to see
what kind of reaction they
could get from Donald Jr.
And if they -- how do they
respond to the signal?
And so what else did they do?
There must have been
other things they did.
The second, was it connected?
Donald Trump, as others have
cited, gave a speech in which
he said, we're about to have
a big set of revelations
about Hillary Clinton.
Did that flow out
of this meeting?
And what was the timing of that?
Who else was in this meeting?
What actually was
said in the meeting?
We still really -- we have some
testimonies, but what documents
were brought to the meeting?
It means there's another
several weeks of questions.
And it gives Bob Mueller a
new channel to walk down.
It's just expanding.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The
special counsel.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
MARK SHIELDS: I would just say
one thing about Mr. Mueller.
He has an advantage and a
power that nobody else, that
none of us in the press has.
He has the power of subpoena.
And he has the power
of a grand jury.
And he has the alternative
of indictment for perjury.
So, you just can't keep
changing these stories.
I mean, Jared Kushner now
has amended, as John Yang
pointed out at the beginning of
the show, point, his number
of contacts with foreign
individuals and interests, 100.
Three times, he's
now had to do so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Added names.
MARK SHIELDS: And it raises
the question, who leaked these
e-mails on Donald Trump -- I
mean, on Donald Trump Jr.?
Did they -- is there mistrust?
There is distrust, I know, in
the White House whether it was
Kushner or Kushner's people,
saying that we had
to get this out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, meantime,
one thing, David, the president
is saying that he wants
the Senate to get done
is health care reform.
So, we now -- a few days ago,
we saw this newest, newer
version of health care reform
that Leader McConnell is saying
that he really, really wants his
troops to come together behind.
But they still aren't there.
What does it look like?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, it's
interesting when you see the
reaction to this latest bill.
Some people say, oh, it
shifted to the right.
Some people say, oh, no,
it shifted to the left.
In reality, it short
of shifted both ways.
It keeps some of the taxes
on the rich, which some
of the moderates want.
It includes some deregulation
of the insurance markets, which
Ted Cruz and Mike Lee and some
of the conservatives want.
So, it sort of moves
in both direction.
And I give Mitch
McConnell credit.
This is an incredibly
unpopular bill.
And it probably couldn't
survive a set of public
hearings and scrutiny.
And yet he's got to the
point where he's kind
of close to getting it.
I don't know if
we will get there.
I sort of would bet against it.
But, as an act of legislative
craftsmanship, if your only
goal is to pass something, then
I would say Mitch McConnell
has done about as well as you
can do by pushing a lot of
different buttons and bringing
people at least within the
ballpark, especially given how
unpopular this is.
I still think it's a bad
bill because it does so
much to punish Medicaid
among a population
that can afford it least.
But just as a set of legislative
craftsmanship, I would say
McConnell is like turning all
the knobs and getting
people sort of close.
I would say maybe 40 percent
chance that he actually
passes something this summer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think
it will go over the top?
MARK SHIELDS: I don't, Judy.
But I would just point out
Affordable Care Act was being
fought for 18 months in the
Congress.
There was always a public
case you could make for it.
There was much criticism of it,
but the public case included
that women wouldn't be charged
more than men, that nobody
could be denied coverage, that
the preexisting condition,
people would be
guaranteed insurance and
access to health care.
There is -- and the inside
part was done by Harry Reid
in the Senate and Nancy Pelosi
in the House.
This is all inside.
There is no public argument.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Behind closed doors.
MARK SHIELDS: There is no
public case that can --
Mitch McConnell can make.
There's no public case
addressing the -- you have
two minutes to address
the American people,
why is this better?
Why will this Republican
plan be better for Americans?
Why will it be better for those
who don't have health care?
Why will it be better for the
elderly, for the poor, for
the quality of health care in
the country?
There is no case to be made.
It's all inside baseball.
Can you get Dean Heller
by leaning on Governor
Sandoval in Nevada?
I mean, that is what
it has come down to.
And, to me, that is
a terrible failing.
If somehow they do wrangle
vote, what have they got?
They have got an incredibly
unpopular piece of legislation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is
anybody, David, making a
positive case for this?
DAVID BROOKS: Not really.
They say the insurance markets
are failing, the Obamacare
markets are failing, which is
somewhat true.
They want -- they say we have
to have a more market-driven
system to shove down costs,
which is somewhat true.
And so I think there is a
public case that could be made.
I don't think they're
particularly making it, which
is why it's so unpopular.
But if we had public
scrutiny -- say the insurance
markets -- this thing
called the Cruz amendments
gives the insurance companies
a chance to charge less for
some people if they give a
fuller benefit for another.
And what that will do is,
let's put the insurance markets
into two different systems.
MARK SHIELDS: Exactly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
DAVID BROOKS: And so the
people who are healthy
will be paying a low fee.
And then the people who are
sick would be paying much more.
And so whether you agree or
not with the principle, these
things actually have to work.
And I'm not sure that
the way this is written,
this will actually even
just work as functioning
way to run a market, as the
health insurance companies
have been strongly saying, like
Blue Cross and Blue Shield.
MARK SHIELDS: We're waiting
to find out now whether it's
going to be 19 million or 24
million people who
are going to...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Knocked off.
MARK SHIELDS: Knocked
off health insurance.
I mean, what everyone says
about the Affordable Care Act,
20 million Americans who didn't
have it then did have
health care coverage.
And, Judy, let's be very blunt;
12 million of them came through
the extension of Medicaid.
And this is the starvation of
Medicaid, seven years, 2024,
and the federal support on the
extension of
Medicaid disappears.
And so they can talk about
money and everything else, but
implicit in the Republican bill
is there's a difference in
those who are on Medicaid.
Somehow, they are takers.
Somehow, they are freeloaders.
They're not our fellow Americans
who are struggling to get by.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are
going to have to leave
it there on that note.
Mark Shields, David
Brooks, thank you both.